---

[TOC]

---

# 20260711

## The Need for a Blog

!!! greysondn "greysondn - The need for a blog"
    It's increasingly apparent I can't remember what I'm doing half the time.
    We needed a blog both to record decisions we've made and to document
    things that are ad hoc until we implement them properly. That's the whole
    gist of it.

## Config settings as items

!!! greysondn "greysondn - Config settings as items"
    I had this notion I ran away with that we could do config settings as items
    so they'd be easier to work with. But gamefreq0 pointed out that there was
    a possibility we were loading a gun to shoot ourselves in the foot with it.
    Some disagreement ensued, but we did eventually figure it out.

Things that cannot be represented as items:

* Things which have distinct, complex values
    * In the case of Spyro
        * Spyro's overlay color (if/when that is implemented) - RGBA
        * `global_gem_percent` - UINT
        * `max_level_gem_threshold` - UINT
* Anything which represents mutually exlusive states
    * goal settings usually go here
    * starting world goes here
    * in the case of Spyro, "no lives" versus "exploit: die to get to homeworld" (if we end up doing that)
* Anything which should only meaningfully affect generation
    * specific goal settings
    * entrance randomization
    * most randomization settings being "on"/etc

Things that can (and maybe should!) be represented as items:

* Speciific glitches the player is opting into the usage of
    * only ones chosen "correctly" in config apply to world generation.
    * This lets the player adjust on the fly via `!getitem`/etc and provides a basis for checking what the player has opted into for checking accessibility during generation/poptracker/etc. The only problem is that there's no easy way to opt-out once the player has opted-in.

!!! gamefreq0 "gamefreq0 - Approach to an opt-out"
    My thinking is that there is an option to opt-out, without requiring
    using `get_logical_path` for every single location it might apply to:
    comparing slot_data to opt-in glitch items, and in the case of
    mismatch, show any in logic with later items as glitched logic in
    Universal Tracker; if a player opted into any glitches they were
    mistaken about, those glitches will show as in logic, but highlighted
    in yellow, as opposed to showing up like every other logically
    accessible location that was true at generation time.
    
    Even if we accept (as greysondn notes below) that this is a deliberate
    choice, it seems it would be preferable to mark the locations with a
    different logic connotation from the world's generation, in order to
    distinguish in-logic locations from out-of-logic locations.

!!! greysondn "greysondn - About the opt-out"
    This feels like a mistake the player likely only makes once. The
    notion proposed in voice discussion about this passage was an example
    of a glitch opt-in item that is ambiguously named. The real issue is
    this: neither myself nor gamefreq0 wish to set the player up to fail
    even once (well, outside the rules of the game, anyway). So we have to
    resolve this in order to keep all the nice things this gives us without
    hurting players who "don't know better" yet.

* Moves the player has access to (even when move randomization is off)
    * This lets us check location accessibility in a uniform way, for all gameplay options.

!!! greysondn "greysondn - Realm of possibility?"
    During voice discussion of this, gamefreq0 raised that the AP generator
    may go a bit crazy about items which exist but cannot or are not placed.
    My thinking is that we could always make a "connected" location, but it
    seems to me it's only an issue if our location to item ratio is a mess.

## Callbacks

There was discourse previously (six months ago?) on callbacks for (at minimum) items and locations. That discourse is mostly lost - we have no idea where it went. We have some notes; we need to work out our callbacks again:

* items
    * pre_receive
    * on_receive
    * post_receive
    * on_hint
* locations
    * pre_send
    * on_send
    * post_send
    * on_hint
    * on_scout
    * on_collect
    * on_release

There are some documents regarding the structure of these. They seem to only list what is necessary for items, however; that is, they're incomplete.

All of these default to type `nop`. Defining and registering a function is poorly defined and will likely end up defined ad-hoc as I figure out how I (greysondn) wish to do so.

Callbacks of type...

* nop - do nothing, default
* set_memory - label on tin
* increment_memory - label on tin
* decrement_memory - label on tin

Similar to guards, type-param-value. Unlike guards, it's a list of callbacks, not necessarily just one.